In this video, we're gonna go ahead and
set up a component that's gonna send
out messages. And, the first thing I wanna do is actually set the queue name. So,
the queue name is gonna be a common
string value. And like always, it's a good
idea not to repeat yourself. So, I'm gonna
come to the JmsConfig class and say
public String. We'll call it MY_QUEUE. And
these can actually be just about any
value I want. So, I'm just gonna say hello-world.
And, we'll make that a static constant. So,
I'm setting up on JmsConfig. We'll
have a static final property of MY_QUEUE
and it's just gonna have the string
value of hello-world. So now, I'm gonna
come over here. I'm gonna create a
new Java Class or it actually I'll
create a Package.
I'm gonna call this sender like so.
This is optional. I'm just organizing
my code into packages. And, I'm gonna
say Java Class
HelloSender like so.
We'll go ahead and
add that into Git for you.
Now what we wanna do is say public
so this is just gonna be a method without any arguments to send a message. And, what I wanna do here is,
remember I said I wanted to have this
schedule periodically. So, what I can do
is I can come up here and say @Scheduled.
and we'll do a fixedRate and
let's just do 2,000. So, that's 2,000
milliseconds. And, let's come up here. Use
System.out say "I'm Sending a message"
like so. So now, if everything's working
right. Before I do that, we need to mark
this as a @Component.
So, everything's working right. I
come in here and run the application in
the console. Every two seconds, I should
see the message, "I'm sending a message".
And, you can see that that is in fact
happening. I'm getting out "I'm sending a
message". I had a little bit of chatter
there. But that's what we saw before so
that it's okay. So, I'm gonna go ahead and
stop this and let's shrink down the
console. Now, for this to work what we
need to do is get a hold of JMS
template.
JmsTemplate like so. And I'm gonna
take advantage of Lombok and we'll say
@RecquiredArgsConstructor. So, that will
set up a constructor for that. And here,
what I wanna do is create a HelloWorldMessage.
Let's reformat
this a little bit.
We want our message
like so. So, that sets up the message object of what we wanna send. Now, what
I wanna do is I wanna use the jmsTemplate like so. I wanna do
convertAndSend. You can see that this is
overloaded so there's actually number
options that you can use. What we wanna
use is destination and the object. So,
it's gonna be this implementation
here. Remember, the JmsConfig. I'll
use MY_QUEUE and then the message like so.
So, that sets that up. I come up
here. Let's do a System.out.
So, let's go ahead and make sure that that is doing. So, I'm just gonna demonstrate sending the
message here. So, let's go ahead and start
up Spring Boot. And, we'll see a little
bit of chatter there in the log. And then,
once this get started every two seconds,
you can see that we're getting the
sending message, message shut. So, that
that is going to go ahead and send that
messages. So right now, we're not getting
any errors, no exceptions are being
thrown. So, I am going to go under the
assumption that this message is actually
getting to a queue in ActiveMQ. So, in the
next video, we are gonna go ahead and
start reading from that queue. But here,
you can see when I stop this and just
recap what we did the important stuff. So,
I created a new component my HelloSender. I am injecting JmsTemplate. So,
JmsTemplate is going to be a
pre-configured JMS template. Much like
Spring has a JDBC template. Here, this is
a JmsTemplate already pre-configured to
talk to our ActiveMQ instance. So that
now is pre-configured it with all the
credentials for the ActiveMQ server. And
here, what we're doing is we're using the
convertAndSend method. That is going to
use that message converter that we
provided and send it to the queue name
that we set. So, pretty straightforward
implementation. The only nuance there is
on line 21. We have that @Scheduled
annotation. Remember, we set up the task
config. That is what's telling our task
configuration to go ahead, get a hold of
this bean and execute that send message
every two seconds. So, the fixedRate is
saying do this every two seconds of the
2000 is in milliseconds. So, that is what is
automating our sending of messages.